I will close the window because I don't
need to see myself on the YouTube
alright welcome everyone to the first
IPL DB weekly call in ages
it's November the 12th 2018 and we have
an agenda which I will also post on that
shape and yes so first thing is we need
a note-taker
any volunteers it's a carbonyl Jacob so
this will be a tough task anyone any
note-taker I can take I can take notes
but where they can where's the path yeah
I yeah it's on my I can do two things at
the same time so the head is here okay
now all right thanks Alan
all right then the next thing is yeah
please put your name on the attendance
lists if you are attending and then
really quick I want to know like what
should this call be about and what's
true the format is or should it be just
like the sync meeting like we do for go
in for chase world or is it like
something else so I would propose that I
see disability basically also like took
the time to discuss things and I really
want to keep the the round of updates
really short so I rather call it
awareness update rather than status
update so really really quick so people
know okay i working on graph singing i
working on formats are working on
something else
and I don't really care about like which
PR suitable so something that's at least
that take I have yeah so yeah I mean
like from my perspective there's not so
much going on and I feel D right now
that you can't sort of be up to date
right like like and the other calls
there's so much stuff going on that
people really depend on people kind of
updating on what's going on so we can
definitely cut a lot of that out I'm
more interested in like Trent we have a
lot of open threads that don't seem to
be getting close
out so if we can take the things like
the issues that are contentious that we
really need to have a discussion about
and try to a lot of time to get them
unblocked that would I think me the most
productive use of the time so I would
probably put the like so I think it's
great if it's if people could put on
what they worked on in the crib head so
you have it somewhere stored but then we
basically if we have time at the end we
can basically go through those things if
you want to but I would also yeah some
things rather than yeah give me say this
updates or any other any agenda items
that come up from the community all
right
and what I also have on my agenda Liz
yeah um
currently so we still have this weird
thing that we kind of our ipfs but also
i PLD so should we still put our notes
on where we have the go now nodes and
trace notes or should we put them on
summary posture and IPL you like is
there any like I probably just put it on
the on the XP Emery poll that he
finished men who people it's what I
would do Steven I like to keep using
team management co repos better wait for
I feel D stuff if you not have an
actively p.m. we should probably make
one initial probably didn't also called
team and management I guess so it's easy
to find
yeah I guess I mean we call it whatever
yeah just call it the same thing like if
this is what I care about it hey don't
get about the name which is the same
thing yeah see also comes at p.m. but
yeah redeeming I that's interesting but
yeah okay so three BC put our okay so
then we put all the stuff in the IPL the
repository okay that's fine for me all
right what else yeah then I have me the
biggest items probably discuss graph
sync I kind of like we have three
proposals and just getting on some like
yeah agreement or how we move
and so on I'm not sure if you should
discuss this first because it probably
takes like it takes the whole meeting
anyway even if we start in ten minutes
so probably I would like let me see what
other items we have um we have over some
of them from Johnny I haven't seen this
before
so Johnny do you want to quickly tell us
what you want to discuss or tell us
about there's actually two things so one
is the I submitted to the rebooting of a
trust in Toronto and Jen months ago
there's about using IP eld as a
generalized framework for the D ID
methods so D IDs are decentralized
identifiers for self sovereign digital
identity and there are some security
vulnerabilities in the current approach
with Jason LD and I thought the IP LD
would be much more secure approach so I
present to that along with Christian led
fits from you port protocol we wrote it
up and there are still some shortcomings
with mostly within a lot of this work is
coming out of the w3c work credentials
working group and they're very much
focused on the HTTP protocol so
everything in their viewpoint is a URL
and so I presented a much more secure
framework so just for information I'm
still battling the other group working
group to credential group to include
some syntax that would be more secure
including the reserving slash as a
reserved for IP LD links so I think just
read the paper I'd love your feedback
for this approach this is what I use for
the IP ID method
someone presented I think you guys can
just read it and take a look at it can
you bleep do it from that up yeah oh
yeah right now so I just really
appreciate your feedback
mostly because I think the current
approach and I actually talked to one
about this back at the D Web Summit is
that a lot of this json-ld syntax is
just broken I think it really begs for
the need for why we need multi key and
the multi key is very cumbersome with
representing the X and the y for the
elliptic curves and I'm actually I've
been more of a proponent of the rather
than the Jose which is Java JavaScript
the encryption library I actually really
like the cozy program which is uses
Seaborg so I think that you know a lot
of it is just a canonicalization this
utilization into a deterministic jason
model which is why I love IPL D so I
just it works that's awesome um a couple
quick questions about that one is um
would this actually change the D ID so
inside of the D ID it references a
particular public key would we end up
referencing a CID to a data structure
instead of a public key or would it
still be a public key but then when you
go and look up information about that
you would end up getting at they'll be
instead of json-ld because right now
those are really separated in this back
yep so it's actually with the way I do
it for my approach is I published the IP
eld to the IP NS namespace the way other
people are working on it is actually
publishing the if they use IP LD is they
publish the cid to a smart contract and
as there am so so and now within at
least the latest version of the go ipfs
you can store the IP LD and something I
was a proper links to actually you know
that this is the context that it is a
IPL d link so you can resolve it
properly
okay cool very cool and you're coming to
a multi key so just we're looking at
there's a bunch of stuff that needs to
happen in multi formats it's um it's not
in the best state we want to get one we
want to get some of the stuff in the
standards track that we feel like it's
pretty much like ready to go like multi
hash and then after the process is set
up where things are actually maybe on
the cinder track and ICS we do want to
start working more on multi key and
writing a better spec for that in
iterating on it so any comments you have
there are are going to be very helpful
yeah and actually we're giving that a
lot of thought and I think and I really
is going towards the chose a framework
for representing the curves
unfortunately there are some of the idea
Polly and cha-cha algorithms that are
actually not standardized yet so they're
really at the edge but those are
actually where a lot of the zero
knowledge proof server actually at
leveraging so those are actually not in
any ATF yet so is that the the cutting
edge so the most because that's actually
work where I think a lot of the work
needs to be is standardized approaches
that standardized vocabulary and my
point of actually using IP LD is that we
actually could have self resolving keys
actually like you used say you've
created Polly 2020 with the cha-cha
algorithm well here's what I mean by
that and a lot of it is namespace
registration where a lot of it if you
have a whatever sha-2 to the g6
algorithm well what do you mean by that
that's who says who what's that's what
is that sha-2 - two five six where is
that register work and we've created
greement and that gets me into this sort
of like the next topic I actually and I
apologize I've been off the radar and
not responding to my github mentions
Steven so as far as a typing system with
IP LD so like the the challenge is that
a lot of the rdf models with symptom a
semantic web ultimately have a
simple routing issue where you get to
the ultimately everything in the RDF
world is a as a route of a URL and so
that isn't like you ultimately need a
more robust representation of the types
and I think you can have simple data
types or generic data types we actually
as you get more complicated in the data
types you actually have to have some
some lightweight ontology or in linked
data that tells you what is this thing
that we're talking about so right now a
lot of people handle that with
registering a symbol and that symbol is
registered somewhere but in it the
entire RDF before all this there are
cyclic representations and that doesn't
work well for us I just put it as
another link in the next topic which is
that just some notes on the topic and
you might not be able to resolve that
because I'm on a terrible terrible
internet access so I just moved to
Chicago and I have like three mega bits
up and down and a half megabit up so
that's I just stored it an IP FS so it
might not work too well all right Thank
You Johnny um so I guess we can raise
minimus and we yeah we can then go to
the graph sing stuff I guess yeah so as
hopefully everyone's aware if we have
now kind of three proposals oh they're
kind of similar and we kind of a I need
to like yeah find a way on like how we
move forward with this I know that
Michael had a few ideas about it yeah I
mean essentially like I think that we
should just start to break these apart a
little bit more like so as it stands we
have three proposals that require us to
move to a more RPC based approach to
replication we have two proposals that
require some kind of merkel proof for
our particular path you know and and
these are just sort of like if you a set
if we first said look like let's lay
down the framework for doing a more RPC
based approach then on top of that start
layering in certain RPC methods to
enable these different these different
replication schemes that would give us
like a much better path to move forward
in a much more modular way than trying
to have an entire proposal for not just
essentially like the interface and all
the infrastructural changes to make that
happen but also what is implied here is
like an unbelievable medical logic to
resolve a bunch of edge cases and a
bunch of performance issues that we we
can see happening with each of these
replication methods whereas if we say
look like well we'll map that on top of
like well map that logic on top of these
RPC api's after we implement them we get
a much more kind of staggered approach
and and then in this world we can we can
hopefully start to simulate out some of
these replications use cases on
different Network conditions and
different
datum like different types of data and
so I have some code in a PR to try and
create like a simulator video with that
but another thing that we should block
any work until we have like all of this
simulation logic up and we know exactly
what use cases different replicate or
solved better we can start to implement
now it's by moving forward with the the
common API s and then start implementing
the base ap is Right like no matter what
we're going to need like I get many CID
API that's going to be very useful no
matter what we're going to need to have
an API where it's where we say give me
this the Merkle proof for this
particular path and then you know
implementing the selector syntax grammar
is going to be difficult
but we're going to need that anyway even
if we don't use it in the replicator
Network API directly because that will
end up being a user facing API so we're
going to need a parser for that no
matter what so we can like start
implementing all of these things and
even in parallel without agreeing on
like oh my god this entire giant stack
is like the way to go so Stephen is sort
of a very clear distinction machines
like Network vertical stuff and user
facing at the eyes feel like for user
facing at the eyes a yet Merkle pass he
like may be important but it's not
necessarily critical but it's like
network stuff is
my critical but didn't like forget many
that so much like they're different
yeah me well so we need it we need we're
gonna need an AP after getting a block
and then we probably want an AP after
getting many blocks or we can just
parallel eyes that that one get block
hull like we can we can sort of see like
which network conditions play out better
for each of those but I think is it like
if we haven't get many woman's we'll
just use that and and also we want we
need to figure out like what happens
when somebody doesn't have a block how
do they sin that rejection like that's
an issue in every single one of these
specs that we haven't figured out so
these are like all commonalities and
then yeah I mean so for the user facing
if you guys though like I definitely
like want an API that says pin this you
know I filled your selector like I
really want that so we're gonna need
like a parser for selectors no matter
what so we should like in parallel just
work on the selector spec and triple
defined ran implementations also wonders
that are perceived may actually not be
the best model for this because like at
least for aggressing be you had a like
getting back a stream of blocks it it
all look like this yeah you get back a
bag of data before a request and you may
actually want to cancel sequester naman
consume that it already received so it's
not quite like I send a single request
and they get a response it's more of
like a I end out it requested one or
more nodes and this request may even
share the same ie and then from one or
more nodes I get one or more like
objects god there's like it often like
we do is you'd only want to block on
this request because if you do that then
you have to Kumasi from like resources
use locally if you walk on it get like a
blocking call for every single request
but yeah yeah i guess by RPC
I didn't mean really stringent request
like response reply I mainly meant that
like we need named methods with options
that get sent and we need like a model
one way to be adding those in the future
and then like that yeah we should
probably tried it we should be as
agnostic as possible about what the
response stream looks like one one thing
I'd add to that is for the live pvp
daemon stuff we just did like a very
simple message protocol using protobufs
kind of fits the bill for that so it
might be something worth looking at it's
yeah it's pretty straight for one thing
we've also been talking about is a new
multi stream protocol and any season
came up was like our protocols are
actually more like endpoint to verticals
so one potential way of doing this is
you simplified multiple endpoints one
endpoint for every single method which
allows that you'd ever it gives you a
very easy way to like tell the other
side which methods you support or like a
Grassley protocol could be like flash
crash think flash and get block /
graphic like yes yep blocks flash crash
link flash whatever if that makes any
sense that may not be the right way to
do it it may be too complex but it does
allow you to leverage underlying
protocols to make it support the higher
level portables so that's fine to
consider all right hmm so I think what
we now have is so we of course it made a
distinction between the user facing
staff and the internal communication
stuff whatever we call it um so is I so
I also fully agree that it is only wants
a full didn't take the stuff for the
user facing stuff but I guess yeah we
should start with the internal stuff so
is it so how do we move forward there so
it's the like can you find agreement on
what Michael basically said is that we
certainly need get multiple blocks and
give me some path with all the nodes up
to there for the worker proof proof is
this something we can agree on but see
this especially with a graph saying see
proposal is about again I think I said
make distinction like what I were
talking about like I'm not sure we even
really want a get multiple blocks single
message RPC like the way we this
miserable oops have want list
get multiple walk in grab stick I
assumed it would be like a single
message that has multiple requests and a
type of request to be given me as the ID
so I could have a zipper questions and
give me this path and give me this the
idea and give me another selector so my
sense like yeah yeah I think that we can
start a separate thread about like if we
need to get many or not and we can
actually do purpose test to see if we if
there is actually a gain here and and
like there may like I think that there
may just be a bug in some of the Jas
side of this in paralyzing enough
requests like we've talked about this
before so like it would be nice to flush
that out and see if like we really need
get many and like um I don't know what's
happening with the multi stream 2.0
stuff yet but like if we if we have
essentially free sub streams I don't
know if we need to get many right we can
just use the single get for that it's
like everything we have but the clients
are safe with the client sees and what
we sent over the network because like
the clients perspective it's very useful
how to get many especially for like
resource tracking so like that feels
like if I let the clients or backup all
forgets and it's a pass it off the bit
swap whatever it is all at once then we
can optimize a lot of things from the
center for one day pack on the network
it has a client so like fire up a book
and guess we're probably not gonna
fracture properly and use a bunch of
extra resources like doing overhead to
be the only one since it's like get all
one Amazon like yeah keep them distinct
so what do we need to actually happen
Center for the network and what do we
need to have mostly that's what I'm
saying I'm there's a constraint right
now they're just making like me they get
money rather than sending them
individually or and if that's maybe
going to be fixed by stream 2.0 or
something like that so we can have a
discussion about like whether or not
that's a good optimization I think that
regardless of that though like the user
that like the the code API and the
network API are going to be different
there because get many on the code API
should actually be able to parallelize
over multiple peers anyway even if each
of those peers had to get many networks
so the recession being one the one
anyway actually I want to back up on the
both destructive enough stuff actually
thinking about that again I don't think
it's gonna be more that's gonna work
well in this case because ideally like
we send out one request it has a bunch
of like several questions out of it I
just really I never accuses you for
packing things up or need to do that it
also has a bit like yes
it simplifies thank you but um maybe
well don't forget only Hayden sorry yeah
yeah I just a question just because like
I'm new to this sort of stuff is the the
IP LD like graphs that we're talking
about are they mostly are they all
immutable or is this included like
mutability points to what we're like you
know chunks of the graph are are mutable
so I asked you know does anyone know you
know whatever I want all the people who
are in this room and I asked some people
and other and I asked you know my peers
and they all give me different amount in
different users and then I I smash them
all together and then I get my net list
all right like is that supported or not
supported or planning on the exact time
I guess but that's not the way that
we've talked about it we've mainly
talked about it it's like if you're if
you're thinking that means you have
something in cash so that means that
like the the the state was a particular
CID in that whole graph and the state
change that the new CID now with changes
in it and so you have the old graph in
cash state and now you just need the new
changes that's certainly like part of
the scope I don't know if we've if we've
looked at like in parallel I'm pulling a
bunch of data and I don't know what I
don't know what the the roots are yet
and then when I get them there maybe you
duplicate a data in each of them I don't
know if we chose it so maybe it will
call like it depends what you mean by by
root so okay you know if you have um you
know let's say we we have like the
starting state of the document and every
time you make a change on it like a get
tree you just point to the end right and
so my version of the tree changes and
your version of the tree changes and now
I need to synchronize them and sort of
smush the two graphs together right and
maybe we can pretend for ease of use
that there's a very easy merge function
that if I make if I had a pointer and
you had a pointer to the same to the
same node that you know which is
branches right and and then the user
figures it out from there
yeah there's something so yeah right
Grubin journey in and out of week so
merging I think is outside of the scope
of bit sloppy and all these verticals
yeah what you do is like you get the
roots from all of your peers you fetch
their entire graphs they're all the
pieces you don't have then you run your
own merge function and then you would
broadcast and tell everyone results if
that makes sense like it's a it's a
separate step but like you have one step
is you pull things in next step is you
merge and then you rebroadcast so the
assumption would be that that that
everything is quote like this system
works right now and I have something
that basically does this but it but it
involves you know the to user sending
their full graphs to each other right as
opposed to you know having some protocol
for communicating and saying hey which
chunks of this graph do I actually need
to send to you it turns out there's only
like five changes all the way down here
I need to send I don't need to send all
of them so in the in the new replication
repository I so I'm working on a
simulator so we can simulate these
conditions and these types of data
structures but like for now I think that
we should just create new issues to
describe some of these cases that we
make sure that we capture them and can
work on them later because I have
thought about this case where you have
essentially what is like an append-only
structure and so what ends up happening
is that the the route is like always new
and changes happen and then eventually
you hit a point in parsing the tree
where you know all of the C ideas that
you have in cache and the full sub grass
so what you really want to do is say
like hey give me everything new until
you see these C ideas and you actually
know that list ahead of time it's like a
very sort of interesting different case
whereas like we're used to looking at
these graphs for like oh the Eid change
for the root of the graph I need to
start looking through it before I know
what has changed and what I have whereas
like in certain cases you actually can
predict when the other remote side is
parsing through the graph when then
we'll need to stop so that's that's like
we can come up with really cool
optimizations there we just need to also
do it upside down right yeah right where
you have instead of it being the root
has the hash of all the children the
children have the hashes of all of the
parents
and then you tend those right the pens
like like her sorry ma'am I just would
say that we are kind of from running out
of time okay so because I want to keep
it to 30 minutes and so is the plan now
basically to split these things up a bit
so we worked on this new fabrication
repository and you basically split out
all those parts that we want to like
want to see in crossing into issues and
then go from there basically this is is
this a workable approach or I you think
having eight a single issue it just
covers like here are the things graphic
needs to solve would help get rid of a
lot of like misconceptions and
disagreements on stuff because like
right now where they're all kind of
floating all over the ethers but like I
have not seen anything well you should
be just like list out the use cases
unless I'm missing something what
happens when I you know I propose
something it turns out it's like a bad
idea slash out of scope for a graph
saying great like you're good you may
end up like polluting the issue and then
every self you're gonna have to like
close and reopen the issue is like with
the culled version of stuff we can also
do for quest so like I I think that's
like well we what may work is almost
like the inverse of that like I don't
think that we've ever really examined
all of the use cases very well and we're
going to have multiple use cases and
essentially what we're going to we're
always going to be able to find use
cases that won't work for particular
methods and we're going to have to have
in the future multiple replication
methods so like if we start just like
rather than starting with the list of
things that need to solve like let's
just start listing use cases and then as
we have solutions to some of these
problems we can identify which ones they
fix and which ones they don't but saying
like this is out of scope for just like
the next thing that we do doesn't seem
like it's going to scale very well when
we know that we're gonna have to have
multiple replication schemes does that
make sense
but are yes sorry but my point is more
like basically we have to we have this
swap right now it works for a lot of
things but I don't think we actually
have a good document okay why is this
sufficient because like for a lot of
like graphic like if you can build a lot
of grass like verticals on top of bit
swab and just use it as your underlying
like block exchange engine and but like
you still do like a lots of fancy stuff
with the grass on top with your actual
planning are doing and go at least by
it's like it I think it may be used to
have something come where these are the
case for a bit just doesn't work
for us I like the protocol level yeah
yes so I want that regardless because so
the first thing the simulator will do is
just like a bunch of bit swap stuff just
show which which use cases it doesn't do
very well at but
because having implementation and if we
if we literally just said like oh here's
all the things that don't replicate well
today with ipfs we're going to find
actually like some of these are because
of bugs and some of them because of
theoretical limitations and how we
design work all right and there's not a
good way to separate those right now all
right
I think there actually are there's a
good bug like you can look at a lot of
different data structures and just like
say well like could we possibly
replicate this with the swap or is there
a fundamental notation expensive doing
that you can do running simulations your
heads
yeah yeah yeah so that's I'm building
the simulator to do that so yeah we'll
have a path to that I think to focus
question yes we'll continue on in the
replication repo we need to start a
couple issues including what problems
particulars are meant to stop all rather
than saying graph sync because it means
something different everybody it would
be nice if we just said like okay this
particular network API that we're
talking about doing like this one that
returns you if you give it enough eld
selector it just returns you stuff what
is this meant to stall like what are the
use cases that this one is meant to
solve and then when we we propose the
one that's just for the Merkel proof we
can talk about just use cases that
solves as well and then then instead of
talking about like grass link which
literally means a different thing to
every person I've talked to you we're
talking about like specific ap is also
concurrent to all of this we need to
break off the selector stack into its
own spec and how to thread there about
that okay so I think so my takeaway is
that I think it's a good idea to
basically so we have so many use cases
in mind that you start with yes I my API
and then you just describe the use cases
it solves instead of the other way you
found I think that's a good idea to at
least yeah
cover many use cases yeah I think that's
good all right um so do we have any
action items for the next two weeks for
like grafting so I would say ever spend
my time around
but I roll guess I will closely work
with Michael on it and yeah figure
something out all right
is there anything else because we
already like seven minutes over sore
gotta have some stuff if I don't see any
hands I think we covered them well I
just appreciate some feedback because
Rita they responded to Stevens issue
finally and guys give me feedback on
April degree yeah well I'm taking out
your note all right then thanks for
joining and we will see us again the
same time in two weeks
the bye everyone
[Music]